BADDC(1)                    General Commands Manual                   BADDC(1)

NAME
     baddc - integer-precision desk calculator

SYNOPSIS
     baddc [file]

DESCRIPTION
     baddc is a simple desk calculator for integer arithmetic.  It operates on
     a stack and uses reverse-polish notation, like dc(1).

     baddc reads lines from file or from the standard input if no operands are
     given, and interprets them as follows:

     o   If a hexanumerical number is found, it is pushed onto the stack
         according to the current input base.  The number may be composed of
         the characters 0-9 and A-F (but not a-f).

     o   If the number is prefixed by `_', the negative of the number is
         pushed.

     o   Whitespace is ignored.

     o   If one of the supported operations is found, it is performed.

     o   baddc quits on EOF.

     o   If a stack overflow or underflow occurs, baddc prints a warning.

     The input and output bases default to base 10.

     The supported operations are:

     p       Print the top value of the stack without popping it off.

     f       Print the contents of the stack, from top to bottom.

     d       Duplicate the top of the stack.

     c       Clear the entire stack.

     +       Pop the top two values on the stack, and push their sum.

     -       Subtract the first value from the second, and push the result.

     *       Multiply the top two values, and push the result.

     /       Divide the second value by the first, and push the result.

     i       Use the top value of the stack as the new input base.

     I       Push the current input base.

     o       Use the top value of the stack as the new output base.

     O       Push the current output base.

     %       Push the second value modulus the second (the remainder after
             division).

     ^       Push the second value raised to the first value.

     v       Push the square root of the first value.

     q       Quit baddc immediately.

EXIT STATUS
     The baddc utility exits 0 on success, and 1 if the named file cannot be
     opened for reading.

SEE ALSO
     bc(1), dc(1)

BUGS
     Since baddc uses integers internally, all the operations perform integer
     (floor) rounding which may be lossy.

     The only supported values of input base are 1-16.

     The only supported values of output base are 8, 10, 16.

AUTHORS
     phoebos <ben@bvnf.space>

ben's space                      25 May, 2022                      ben's space
